new version of elasticsearch documentation page in the V2 template (#303)
centreon/centreon-documentation: en/integrations/plugin-packs/procedures/applications-databases-elasticsearch.md

| status                   | Status of the Elasticsearch cluster      |         |
| nodes_total              | Number of nodes                          |         |
| nodes_data               | Number of data                           |         |
| nodes_coordinating       | Number of nodes coordinating             |         |
| nodes_master             | Number of master nodes                   |         |
| nodes_ingest             | Number of ingest data                    |         |
| indices_count            | Number of indices                        |         |
| shards_total             | Total number of shards                   |         |
| shards_active            | Number of active shards                  |         |
| shards_unassigned        | Number of unassigned shards              |         |
| shards_relocating        | Number of relocating shards              |         |
| active_shards_percent    | Percentage of active shards              |    %    |
| tasks_pending            | Number of pending tasks                  |         |
| docs_count               | Number of docs                           |         |

> | size_in_bytes            | Size of all shards assigned              |  bytes  |

Reviewer: use single B or at lease Uppercase please

<!--indice-statistics-->

| Metric name              | Description                              | Unit    |
| :----------------------- | :--------------------------------------- | :------ |
| display                  | Name of the Elasticsearch cluster        |         |

> | status                   | Status of the Elasticsearch cluster      |         |

Reviewer: Cluster or Indice?

| shards_active            | Number of active shards                  |         |
| shards_unassigned        | Number of unassigned shards              |         |

> | docs_count               | Number of docs                           |         |

Reviewer: use complete word in description (documents not docs)

Reviewer: @mhuber-centreon  did you fix it ?

| size_in_bytes_primaries  | Size of all primary shards               |  bytes  |
| size_in_bytes_total      | Total size of all shards assigned        |  bytes  |

<!--license-->

| Metric name        | Description                              | Unit    |
| :----------------- | :--------------------------------------- | :------ |
| type               | Licence type                             |         |
| status             | Licence status                           |         |
| issued_to          | Licence owner                            |         |

> | issue_date         | Licence issue date                       |  date   |

Reviewer: date is not an UOM see https://www.monitoring-plugins.org/doc/guidelines.html#AEN201 paragraph

Reviewer: side note: you can just remove the Unit column

Reviewer: @mhuber-centreon did you fix it ?

<!--list-indices-->

| Metric name        | Description                             | Unit    |
| :----------------- | :-------------------------------------- | :------ |
| name               | Indice name                             |         |
| status             | Indice status                           |         |

<!--list-nodes-->

| Metric name        | Description                             | Unit    |
| :----------------- | :-------------------------------------- | :------ |
| name               | Node name                               |         |
| host               | Node host                               |         |
| ip                 | Node ip                                 |   ip    |

> 

Reviewer: --list-* are not monitoring check. Create a dedicated section as stated by guidelines. Look at Service here => https://docs.centreon.com/current/en/integrations/plugin-packs/procedures/operatingsystems-linux-snmp.html#discovery-rules

| :---------------- | :---------------------------------------------------- | :-----  |
| display           | Name of the Elasticsearch node                        |         |
| indices_count     | Number of indices in the node                         |         |
| heap_used_percent | Percentage of memory currently in use by the heap     |    %    |
| heap_used_in_bytes| Amount of memory available for use by the heap        |  bytes  |
| heap_max_in_bytes | Maximum amount of memory available for use by the heap|  bytes  |
| available_in_bytes| Total number of bytes available                       |  bytes  |
| total_in_bytes    | Total size of all file stores                         |  bytes  |
| docs_count        | Number of documents inside the indice                 |         |
| size_in_bytes     | Total size of all shards assigned to the node         |  bytes  |

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

## Prerequisites 

In order to monitor an Elasticsearch cluster, it must be prepared acccording to Elasticsearch's official documentation: https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.8/monitor-elasticsearch-cluster.html

> 

Reviewer: Please explain protocol and default port used and that the Centreon Poller should be able to communicate with the Elastic node through this network flow.

Author: Not sure if it's what you wanted but i added it. After all the port and the protocol can be adjusted in the centreon web interface as well, so it's not that mandatory, it just have to be the same on both ends.

## Installation

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--Online Licence Business & IT Editions-->

> 1. Install the Plugin on all Centreon pollers supervising Elasticsearch ressources:

Reviewer: Prefere monitoring rather than supervising

```bash
yum install centreon-plugin-Applications-Databases-Elasticsearch
```

2. Instal the Plugin-Pack 'Elasticsearch' in the " Configuration  >  Plugin Packs"  page of the Web Centreon interface

<!--Offline Licenses-->

1. Install the Plugin on all Centreon pollers supervising Elasticsearch ressources:

```bash
yum install centreon-plugin-Applications-Databases-Elasticsearch
```

2. Install the Plugin-Pack RPM on the Centreon server **Central**:

```bash
yum install centreon-pack-applications-databases-elasticsearch
```

3. In the *Configuration  \>  Plugin Packs*  page of the Web Centreon interface, instal the Plugin-Pack 'Elasticsearch'

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

## Configuration

Still in the Web Centreon interface, go to *Configuration \> Hosts* and click *Add*. Then fill the form as shown by the following table:

| Field                   | Value                        |
| :---------------------- | :--------------------------- |
| Name                    | *Name of the host*           |
| Alias                   | *Host description*           |
| IP                      | *Host IP Address*            |
| Monitored from          | *Monitoring Poller to use*   |

> In the field *Templates* click on *+ Add a new entry* and then select *App-DB-Elascticsearch-custom*

Reviewer: Prefer Bullet List, and clear instructions. 

Also specify which macros are mandatory like in https://docs.centreon.com/current/en/integrations/plugin-packs/procedures/cloud-aws-sns.html#configuration

| issued_to          | Licence owner                            |         |
| issue_date         | Licence issue date                       |         |

<!--Node-statistics-->

| Metric name       | Description                                           | Unit    |
| :---------------- | :---------------------------------------------------- | :-----  |
| display           | Name of the Elasticsearch node                        |         |
| indices_count     | Number of indices in the node                         |         |
| heap_used_percent | Percentage of memory currently in use by the heap     |    %    |
| heap_used_in_bytes| Amount of memory available for use by the heap        |    B    |
| heap_max_in_bytes | Maximum amount of memory available for use by the heap|    B    |
| available_in_bytes| Total number of bytes available                       |    B    |
| total_in_bytes    | Total size of all file stores                         |    B    |
| docs_count        | Number of documents inside the indice                 |         |
| size_in_bytes     | Total size of all shards assigned to the node         |    B    |

> <!--Rules-->
> 
> | Rule name                              | Description                                   |
> | :------------------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------- |
> | App-DB-Elasticsearch-Indice-Statistics | Discover the indices on your Elasticsearch DB |
> | App-DB-Elasticsearch-Node-Statistics   | Discover the nodes on your Elasticsearch DB   |

Reviewer 2: Put this section at the beginning like this :
```suggestion
### Monitored objects
[...]

### Discovery rules

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--Services-->

| Rule name                              | Description                                   |
| :------------------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------- |
| App-DB-Elasticsearch-Indice-Statistics | Discover the indices on your Elasticsearch DB |
| App-DB-Elasticsearch-Node-Statistics   | Discover the nodes on your Elasticsearch DB   |
```
<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

In order to be able to communicate with the Centreon poller, the Elasticsearch node's API should use the http protocol and the port 9200.

## Installation

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--Online Licence Business & IT Editions-->

1. Install the Plugin on all Centreon pollers monitoring Elasticsearch ressources:

```bash
yum install centreon-plugin-Applications-Databases-Elasticsearch
```

2. Instal the Plugin-Pack 'Elasticsearch' in the " Configuration  >  Plugin Packs"  page of the Web Centreon interface

<!--Offline Licenses-->

1. Install the Plugin on all Centreon pollers monitoring Elasticsearch ressources:

```bash
yum install centreon-plugin-Applications-Databases-Elasticsearch
```

2. Install the Plugin-Pack RPM on the Centreon server **Central**:

```bash
yum install centreon-pack-applications-databases-elasticsearch
```

3. In the *Configuration  \>  Plugin Packs*  page of the Web Centreon interface, install the Plugin-Pack 'Elasticsearch'

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

### Host Macro Configuration

> Apply the "The name of your template" template to your newly created host. Then fill the macros value fileds marked as mandatory below:

Reviewer 2: The name of your template ?
In case it should be App-DB-Elasticsearch-custom ;-)

title: Elasticsearch
---

## Overview

Elasticsearch is a distributed, open source search and analytics engine for all types of data, including textual, numerical, geospatial, structured, and unstructured. Elasticsearch is built on Apache Lucene and was first released in 2010 by Elasticsearch N.V. (now known as Elastic).

## Plugin-Pack assests

### Monitored objects

* Databases
* Nodes
* Shards
* Clusters
* Indices
* Documents
* Licences

> <!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->
> 
> <!--Discovery rules-->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Discovery rules

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--Services-->
```

| :----------------- | :---------------------------------------------------- | :-----  |
| display            | Name of the Elasticsearch node                        |         |
| indices_count      | Number of indices in the node                         |         |
| heap_used_percent  | Percentage of memory currently in use by the heap     |    %    |
| heap_used_in_bytes | Amount of memory available for use by the heap        |    B    |
| heap_max_in_bytes  | Maximum amount of memory available for use by the heap|    B    |
| available_in_bytes | Total number of bytes available                       |    B    |
| total_in_bytes     | Total size of all file stores                         |    B    |
| docs_count         | Number of documents inside the indice                 |         |
| size_in_bytes      | Total size of all shards assigned to the node         |    B    |

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

## Prerequisites 

In order to monitor an Elasticsearch cluster, it must be prepared acccording to Elasticsearch's official documentation: https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.8/monitor-elasticsearch-cluster.html

> In order to be able to communicate with the Centreon poller, the Elasticsearch node's API should use the http protocol and the port 9200.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to be able to communicate with the Elasticsearch node's API, the Centreon Poller should access to port 9200 with http protocol on the Elasticsearch node.
```

## Installation

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--Online Licence Business & IT Editions-->

1. Install the Plugin on all Centreon pollers monitoring Elasticsearch ressources:

```bash
yum install centreon-plugin-Applications-Databases-Elasticsearch
```

> 2. Instal the Plugin-Pack 'Elasticsearch' in the " Configuration  >  Plugin Packs"  page of the Web Centreon interface

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Install the Plugin-Pack 'Elasticsearch' in the " Configuration  >  Plugin Packs"  page of the Web Centreon interface
```

<!--Offline Licenses-->

1. Install the Plugin on all Centreon pollers monitoring Elasticsearch ressources:

```bash
yum install centreon-plugin-Applications-Databases-Elasticsearch
```

2. Install the Plugin-Pack RPM on the Centreon server **Central**:

```bash
yum install centreon-pack-applications-databases-elasticsearch
```

3. In the *Configuration  \>  Plugin Packs*  page of the Web Centreon interface, install the Plugin-Pack 'Elasticsearch'

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

> ### Host Macro Configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Host Configuration
```

Apply the "App-DB-Elasticsearch-custom" template to your newly created host. Then fill the macros value fileds marked as mandatory below:

|Mandatory| Macro                 | Description                         | Default value | Example  |
| :-------| :---------------- --- | :---------------------------------- | :------------ | :------- |
|    X    | ELASTICSEARCHPORT     | The Elasticsearch instance port     |     9200      | 1234     |
|    X    | ELASTICSEARCHPROTO    | The Elasticsearch instance protocol |  http | https |          |
|         | ELASTICSEARCHUSERNAME | The Elasticsearch instance username |               | centreon |

> |         | ELASTICSEARCHPASSWORD | The Elasticsearch instance password |               | centreon |

Reviewer 2: check your array. There is missing dash or space.

## FAQ

### How to check in the CLI that the configuration is OK and what are the main options for ?

One the Plugin is installed, you can test it directly in the command line from your Centreon poller
with the user *centreon-engine*:

```bash

> su - centreon-engine\

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

/usr/lib/centreon/plugins/centreon_elasticsearch.pl \ 
--hostname=168.253.16.125 \
--port=9200 \
--proto=http \
--plugin=database::elasticsearch::restapi::plugin \
--mode=node-statistics \
--filter-name='Node 1'  \
--username='Elasticsearch_username' \

> --password='Elasticsearch_password'

Reviewer 2: Indent the command :)

```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Output: 

```bash
OK: Node 'i-Vertix Node 1' JVM Heap: 26%, Free Disk Space: 1.56TB, Documents: 4362761044, Data: 1.26TB | 'i-Vertix Node 1#node.jvm.heap.usage.percentage'=26%;;;0;100 'i-Vertix Node 1#node.jvm.heap.usage.bytes'=36380302240B;;;0;137151119360 'i-Vertix Node 1#node.disk.free.bytes'=1710072680448B;;;0;3113589145600 'i-Vertix Node 1#node.documents.total.count'=4362761044;;;0; 'i-Vertix Node 1#node.data.size.bytes'=1386278479651B;;;0;
```

> The command request statistic to the Elasticsearch node named 'Node 1' (```--mode=node-statistics --filter-name='Node 1```) with the IP/FQDN address *168.253.16.125* (```--hostname=168.253.16.125```). We will use the port 92000 (```--port=9200```) and the http protocol (```proto=http''```). The username of the datebase is *Elasticsearch_username* (```--username='Elasticsearch_username'```) and its paswword is *Elasticsearch_password*(```--password='Elasticsearch_password'```)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The command request statistic to the Elasticsearch node named 'Node 1' (```--mode=node-statistics --filter-name='Node 1```) with the IP/FQDN address *168.253.16.125* (```--hostname=168.253.16.125```).
We will use the port 9200 (```--port=9200```) and the http protocol (```proto=http''```).
The username of the datebase is *Elasticsearch_username* (```--username='Elasticsearch_username'```) and its pasword is *Elasticsearch_password*(```--password='Elasticsearch_password'```)
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Could you add some threshold in the commands + the explanation ?

| ip                 | Node ip                                 |         |

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

## Prerequisites 

In order to monitor an Elasticsearch cluster, it must be prepared acccording to Elasticsearch's official documentation: https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.8/monitor-elasticsearch-cluster.html
In order to be able to communicate with the Centreon poller, the Elasticsearch node's API should use the http protocol and the port 9200.

## Installation

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--Online Licence Business & IT Editions-->

1. Install the Plugin on all Centreon pollers monitoring Elasticsearch ressources:

```bash
yum install centreon-plugin-Applications-Databases-Elasticsearch
```

2. Instal the Plugin-Pack 'Elasticsearch' in the " Configuration  >  Plugin Packs"  page of the Web Centreon interface

<!--Offline Licenses-->

1. Install the Plugin on all Centreon pollers monitoring Elasticsearch ressources:

```bash
yum install centreon-plugin-Applications-Databases-Elasticsearch
```

2. Install the Plugin-Pack RPM on the Centreon server **Central**:

```bash
yum install centreon-pack-applications-databases-elasticsearch
```

> 3. In the *Configuration  \>  Plugin Packs*  page of the Web Centreon interface, instal the Plugin-Pack 'Elasticsearch'

Reviewer: - typo instal instead of install

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

### Host Macro Configuration

The following macros must be configured on host:

| Mandatory| Macro                 | Description                         | Default value | Example  |
| :-------------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------ | :------- |
|    X   | ELASTICSEARCHPORT     | The Elasticsearch instance port     | 9200          | 1234     |
|    X   | ELASTICSEARCHPROTO    | The Elasticsearch instance protocol | http          | https    |
|       | ELASTICSEARCHUSERNAME | The Elasticsearch instance username |               | centreon |

> |       | ELASTICSEARCHPASSWORD | The Elasticsearch instance password |               | centreon |

Reviewer: Column alignment

title: Elasticsearch
---

## Overview

Elasticsearch is a distributed, open source search and analytics engine for all types of data, including textual, numerical, geospatial, structured, and unstructured. Elasticsearch is built on Apache Lucene and was first released in 2010 by Elasticsearch N.V. (now known as Elastic).

## Plugin-Pack content

### Monitored equipments

* Databases
* Nodes
* Shards
* Clusters
* Indices
* Documents
* Licences

### Collected metrics

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

> <!--Cluster-statistics-->

Reviewer: add space please

## Configuration

* Still in the Web Centreon interface, go to *Configuration \> Hosts* and click *Add*. 
* Fill the form as shown by the following table:

| Field                   | Value                        |
| :---------------------- | :--------------------------- |
| Name                    | *Name of the host*           |
| Alias                   | *Host description*           |
| IP                      | *Host IP Address*            |
| Monitored from          | *Monitoring Poller to use*   |

* In the field *Templates* click on *+ Add a new entry* 
* Then select *App-DB-Elascticsearch-custom*

> * Click on the *Save* button.

Reviewer: You can remove this part

| ELASTICSEARCHUSERNAME | The Elasticsearch instance username |               | centreon |
| ELASTICSEARCHPASSWORD | The Elasticsearch instance password |               | centreon |

## FAQ

> ### Comment tester en ligne de commande et que signifient les options principales ?

Reviewer: Franglais :) ?

One the Plugin is installed, you can test it directly in the command line from your Centreon poller
with the user *centreon-engine*:

```bash
su - centreon-engine\
/usr/lib/centreon/plugins/centreon_elasticsearch.pl \ 
--hostname=x.x.x.x \
--port=9200 \
--proto=http \
--plugin=database::elasticsearch::restapi::plugin \
--mode=node-statistics \
--filter-name='Node 1'

> ```

Reviewer: Add credentials parameters as most of the user will probably have their Elastic API protected by Basic Auth and Password

Output: 

```bash
OK: Node 'i-Vertix Node 1' JVM Heap: 26%, Free Disk Space: 1.56TB, Documents: 4362761044, Data: 1.26TB | 'i-Vertix Node 1#node.jvm.heap.usage.percentage'=26%;;;0;100 'i-Vertix Node 1#node.jvm.heap.usage.bytes'=36380302240B;;;0;137151119360 'i-Vertix Node 1#node.disk.free.bytes'=1710072680448B;;;0;3113589145600 'i-Vertix Node 1#node.documents.total.count'=4362761044;;;0; 'i-Vertix Node 1#node.data.size.bytes'=1386278479651B;;;0;
```

The above command reqquest some statistic of the Elasticsearch node
(```--mode=node-statistics```). 
The important informations are the IP/FQDN address 
(```--hostname=x.x.x.x```) 
and the filter-name 

> (```--filter-name='Node 1''```) 

Reviewer: Please make a sentence like https://docs.centreon.com/current/en/integrations/plugin-packs/procedures/cloud-aws-sns.html#faq

All the available modes can be listed with the command line:

```bash
/usr/lib/centreon/plugins/centreon_elasticsearch.pl \
    --list-mode
```

And the different mode's options can be displayed with the ```--help``` parameter:  

```bash
/usr/lib/centreon/plugins/centreon_elasticsearch.pl \
    --mode=node-statistics \
    --help
```

> 

Reviewer: Add some basic troubleshooting on HTTP checks
